Post: How to speed up inference in your deep learning model (#117)
xmartlabs/blog: _posts/2020-06-01-how-to-speed-up-inference-in-your-deep-learning-model.md

---
layout: post

> title: "How to speed up inference in your deep learning model"

Reviewer: What about:

```suggestion
title: "5 Practical Ways to Speed Up your Deep Learning Model"
```

Author: I like it :)

Even better, having some layers in FP32 helps preventing gradient underflow.

This approach is called [Automatic Mixed Precision](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.03740), and it differs on quantization in that rather than post-processing the weights of a trained model, the model should be trained, using mixed precision from the get-go.

**Our experience**

TensorFlow once again goes great extents to make our lives easier by [giving us native support to achieve this](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/train/experimental/enable_mixed_precision_graph_rewrite).
Whereas if you're using PyTorch, [NVIDIA Apex](https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex) is the tool you should use, which fortunately according to our experiences has way fewer issues than the pain that is doing quantization with a PyTorch model.

Integrating Apex is advertised as a mere addition of three lines to your code.
And actually, it is not much more than that.
You must initialize it, change the backward pass call to use Apex's scaled loss, and modify the way you save and load checkpoints.

> The results are pretty good as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
# Initialization
opt_level = 'O1'
model, optimizer = amp.initialize(model, optimizer, opt_level=opt_level)

# Train your model
...
with amp.scale_loss(loss, optimizer) as scaled_loss:
    scaled_loss.backward()
...
```
The results are pretty good as well.
```
